Become a success with a disc and hey presto ! You're a star ... . Rolly sings with assuredness " Bella Bella Marie " ( Parlophone ) , a lively song that changes tempo mid-way . I don't think he will storm the charts with this one , but it's a good start . CHRIS CHARLES , 39 , who lives in Stockton-on-Tees , is an accountant . He is also a director of a couple of garages . And he finds time as well to be a lyric writer . He writes with Tolchard Evans , composer of " Lady of Spain " and other big hits . Tolch , as he is known in Tin Pan Alley , likes songs with a month in the title . He wrote " My September Love , " the big David Whitfield hit of 1956 . The numbers include " Scotland the Brave , " " Men of Harlech , " " McNamara's Band , " " Greensleeves " and " English Rose . " Fay Compton stars in " No Hiding Place " ( ITV , 9.35 p.m. ) . She plays the possessive mother of a man whose hobby revolves round a doll's house . THREE people will be hypnotised in tonight's " Lifeline " ( BBC , 10.15 ) . They will be asked to comment on the design of everyday articles such as a chair and a motor-car . The idea is to see what happens when parts of the mind not normally available without hypnosis are used . ITV have postponed Malcolm Muggeridge's " Appointment with playwright Arnold Wesker . " Instead , Muggeridge's appointment will be with Sir Roy Welensky the Premier of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland ( 10.30 p.m. ) . Say Granada TV , the producers : " We decided to make the switch because of the topicality of African affairs . The Wesker interview will be seen at a later date . " ACTOR Tom Courtenay was an outstanding success last night in ITV's " Private Potter , " his first big TV part . The play was a brilliantly-written essay on soldiering which stated that a fighting man could only be regarded as a machine . Potter screamed during an action , and was arrested . He claimed he had seen a vision of God - only the padre and his CO believed him . Courtenay played the part with a gawky , Northern defiance . The cameras played continuously on his craggy face , and obstinate , baffled eyes . They stripped him of his ugly battle-dress , to leave him for what he was - Potter , a frightened boy who had a vision . The film replaced " What's My Line ? " and " Be My Guest " programmes because of an electricians' strike . It showed Britain today through the eyes of an American TV reporter , Eric Sevareid , and British personalities . Among them - Professor Dennis Brogan , Shelagh Delaney , and Alan Sillitoe . The film covered a wide aspect of the British scene , ranging from pubs , the Eton wall game , to the European Common Market . Shelagh Delaney and Alan Sillitoe attacked education . It was left to reporter Sevareid to make the strongest criticisms . He said that in the race of the modern nations , Britain was slipping behind ... . ALSO present is a London journalist who arrived two hours earlier by appointment to talk to the author of Borstal Boy and The Hostage about his new work , if any , and who is now being pluckily convivial to fight off the frustration . The telephone has rung a couple of times , calls from other chums sniffing the wind and offering to drop by for a chat . The second said that the problems which arise from the comparisons with the Synoptics can be reasonably solved by paying due regard to the time and plan and to the different public for which , or against which , the author wrote . The third article excluded any allegorical interpretation of the Gospel . There is a whole group of theories which attempt to explain the problems of the Fourth Gospel by explanations based on assumed textual dislocations . The present state of the Gospel is the result of an accident-prone history . The original was written on a roll , or codex , which fell into disorder or was accidentally damaged . An editor , who was not the author , made what he could of the chaos by placing the fragments , or sheets , or pages , in order . The one real weakness of the Commentator's case is that , in common with all his colleagues , he has not , until now , been able to exhibit exactly how this enlargement was effected nor has he been able to explain the textual movements by showing that such changes are part of a simple and coherent plan . To understand how this is possible it is necessary to examine the text of the Gospel . THE Fourth Gospel was almost certainly written in Greek . A modern text of the Gospel represents the work of generations of scholars who have compared the many manu- scripts of John and worked out the version which is most likely to have been the original wording . It is not possible to establish any one text with absolute precision . The bar was the commonest marking , but others were also used . Dots sometimes served in place of the bar , and there are cases where spacing is used as it is now used to mark a paragraph ending . Frequently paragraphos markings were omitted . C. H. Roberts is of the opinion that in the original of the Fourth Gospel some markings would be used , although which , it is impossible to say . Professor E. G. Turner is inclined to take the view that the original of the Gospel would be unmarked . The original of the Gospel , whether written on a roll or codex , whether paragraphed or not , would be laid out in columns . This is the invariable practice of ancient manuscripts . A common size of column would hold about one third of a page of Souter's print . The edge of this sheet was attached to a wooden dowel and the sheet wound round this central pin . The roll made a simple and serviceable book . It was robust - the number which have survived the centuries is ample evidence of this - and it was easily stored . It had two disadvantages . It was generally a single-sided form of book , and it was not an easy form of book in which to find a reference . This last objection might have had some weight in ecclesiastical circles . In his Natural History , 13 . 11-12 , the elder Pliny tells of the use of papyrus in roll-making . As Pliny was killed in the eruption of Vesuvius which overwhelmed Herculaneum and Pompeii in A.D. 79 , his information is contemporaneous with the New Testament . The other form of book was the codex . In this the sheets were bound together down one edge much as they are in modern books . Against these advantages the codex was fragile and might be bulky . It is sometimes possible to tell whether or not a particular text was written on a roll or a codex . Rolls were prepared for writing , but any papyrus left unused at the end could be cut off . If the text was longer than the roll , a sheet could easily be glued on . The verso of the roll was blank , and one cannot think of an author , Mark for example , sending out his Gospel lacking the ending , while one whole side of his roll was unused . The codex form was not so accommodating . Even in the case of the single-sheet quire , an extra sheet glued on might have to be gummed on over the binding , or the whole codex rebound . A natural transition from gardens and orchards to the vital question of water supply . The pools are probably natural springs enlarged to become reservoirs or cisterns in the rock . King Mesha of Moab boasts of their construction in lines 9 , 23-25 of the Moabite Stone , which read : And I built Baal-meon and made in it the reservoir ... and I made both the reservoirs for water inside the town . The word Shamir was used as a personal name ( Git. 68a ) . The Hebrew word " SHAMIR " means guarded or preser- ved . Therefore , the real man , who regards himself as insignificant , as the prayer says : " What am I ? A worm " , he is the Shamir and such a man fulfils the Shmah , loves the Lord God with all his heart , and with all his soul and with all his might and studies the word of God . This man is the worm , the creature that cuts and polishes Altar-Stones . Such a man is the Shamir that guards him- self against all the irrelevant pleasures . Such a Shamir possesses the real acid to mould our character , to melt our heart of stone . This Shamir helps us earthly creatures to build an Altar for God to come nearer to God . The action of the Shamir writes books and their books are readable . This Shamir is indeed a rare diamond that incises the hardest rock , the hardest facts . And these creatures existed from the beginning . It is " the stone , which the builders refused , but it is to become the head-stone of the corner " . ( Ps. 118 , 22 . ) And the stone shall tell ! " For the stone shall cry out of the wall " , like Baalam's ass , " and the purlin of timber shall creak in answer " " if the roof of our security is crushing our soul " ( see Hab. 2 , 10-11 ) . And it is through the Shamir : " That the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the Glory of the Lord , as the waters cover the sea . " ( Hab. 2 , 14 . ) The Shamir's daily life writes the Decalogue , which is written on two plates , the hard facts of life , and all facts are " one " . We have all come across human Shamirs and they leave a deep impression on our feelings and senses . They make us the Altar for God to emit the Light which can be read in every language . The Shamir is the " seventh " and most important creature , that was created on the eve of the Sabbath , to bring the Sabbath , real peace to the whole world . Then the whole earth will be His Altar . " And it shall come to pass , if 1ye shall 1hearken diligently unto my commandments , which I command you this day , to love the Lord your God , and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul . " This may seem very good , but there is something deficient . Under such conditions without putting your mind together we cannot solve the further summons of destiny , to solve the economic problems . Hence says Rabbi Simeon ben Jochai ( Tanis 6a ) " if Israel does not fulfil the wish of the Lord , failing to serve the Lord God with all their visionary power , the work will have to be done by each individual " . They will not work in union . If physical power , spiritual power and visionary power is not united , man will remain in his heart selfish and think only of one's personal advantage to gratify selfish aims , then each man will gather-in for himself only , instead of all to help to gather your corn , your wine and your oil . Freedom from want cannot be fulfilled nor freedom from fear , fear of starvation in the midst of plenty . Help will not be easily forth- coming for the people in need . They will think of the animals first ( which is of course our duty ) . Of course the individual will eat and be full but : " Take heed to yourself , that your heart be not deceived , and 1ye turn aside , and serve other gods , and worship them " , the yourself is thy greatest enemy , the self- seeking self . And you serve Mammon and God . And you cannot serve two masters , and you worship self-interest , isolating yourself , under such conditions the goods are your gods . " And then the Lord's wrath be kindled against you , and he shut up the heavens , that there is no rain , and that the land yield not her fruit and lest 1ye perish quickly from off the good land which the Lord 1giveth you . " For without the vision to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might the problem of life cannot be solved . " Therefore shall 1ye lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul . " The text adds and in your soul , searching your soul . And the sequence in the text is different than in the first part of the Shmah , we have first " and to bind them for a sign upon your hand , that they may be as frontlets between your eyes . " First to bind them to have the vision and then " And 1ye shall teach them to your children . " And as we have go- ne through the mill , we need not teach them to the children any more diligently and the children will grasp now what will befall them without visionary power . And the tsitsits had a message sealed inside the knots just as there is a message sealed in the four emblems which are used on Passover , to depict the " time of our freedom " . And they are ( 1 ) Matzo ; ( 2 ) Bitter Herbs ; ( 3 ) Salt-water and Charauses ( a kind of fruit mixture in likeness of the appearance of mortar ) ; and ( 4 ) an attitude to lean back . ( 1 ) Matzos is deficient bread , ( LECHEM ANJO in Hebrew ) , so are we deficient without spiritual knowledge , and to cure our mental incapacity we should be willing to learn . Education is always the most important task . Education gives : Freedom of Speech . ( 2 ) Bitter Herbs symbolises the bitterness that is hurled against us . We eat it . We accept it , to show we have self-control and that God dwells within us . Self-control gives us : Freedom to worship God . ( 3 ) Salt Water and Charauses : the salt-water at the Seder-Table represents the Covenant of the Torah ( MELACH BRITH ELOHECHO in Hebrew , Salt is the covenant of 1thy God , Levit. 2 , 13 . ) Salt preserves and we should have this salt in ourselves and have peace with one-another . And the sweet Mortar ( the CHARAUSES in Hebrew ) that binds all the " hard- facts " together and explains them , represents the Oral Tradition . We dip into both , at the Seder . And we want to understand more of the Torah and the Oral Tradition , our inheritance . Living the life of the Torah ( " dipping-in " ) makes us meek : " But the meek shall inherit the earth ; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of Peace " ( Psalm 37 , 11 ) . That gives us freedom from want . ( 1 ) Matzo represents Peshat ; ( 2 ) Moraur represents Remez ; ( 3 ) Dipping-in represents Derush ; ( 4 ) Leaning-back represents Saud . ( This is the PARDUS . ) Matzo represents the literal meaning of Pesach which is called : The Feast of Matzos . The Bitter-Herbs represent the spiritual principle and this gives us " a wink " ( Remez ) how to live and accept all the bitterness that is hurled against us . The Salt-water and the sweet Mortar in which we dip-in represents the richness of the Law and that we should And we answer , that the Lord our God gave us " four freedoms " without which Society cannot make progress . And we drink " four cups " to thank the Lord our God for the " four freedoms " which are Divine . There are four ways of redemption : ( 1 ) I will bring you out from under the burdens of Egypt . ( 2 ) I will rid you of their bondage . ( 3 ) I will redeem you . ( 4 ) I will take you to me for a people . ( 1 ) I will bring you out from under the burdens of Egypt : How was it that Israel was brought out from under the burdens of Egypt ? Because , they kept the Passover and they were eating Matzos in Egypt and the " Feast of Matzos " was known even to Abraham and Lot . The new century opened with James 1 ascending the throne . He was quite prepared to be tolerant towards Rome though the Gunpowder Plot spoiled that . The Puritans had high hopes , for James had grown up in Presbyterian Scotland , but those hopes were dashed . True , a new Prayer Book was issued in 1604 but the Puritans derived little comfort from it . They objected to the word Absolution . So the phrase ' or the remission of sins ' was added . But Absolution remained . They objected to the word Confirmation . So the phrase ' or the laying on of hands upon children baptized and able to render an account of their faith according to the Catechism following ' were added . But Confirmation remained . Other changes in the Book were equally minor except for the new section on the Sacraments added to the Catechism . This indicated how ephemeral in the Church had been the mood which produced the Black Rubric , for it says that ' the Body and Blood of Christ , which are verily and indeed taken and received by the faithful in the Lord's Supper . ' It could hardly be more definite . It was at this time , too , that King James made himself immortal by becoming associated with a Bible translation - the Authorized Version ( which was never actually authorized ! ) . In that year Shakespeare had just turned forty and had written Hamlet two years before . Bacon was at work and Milton was just learning to read . James was followed by Charles , in whose reign came the Scottish Prayer Book in 1637 . Significantly this made a deliberate return to the Book of 1549 and became the foster mother of some of the most important Prayer Books in the Anglican Communion . Forever associated with Charles is Archbishop Laud , now so much nobler a figure than former historians led us to believe . Laud was enthusiastically hated by Calvinists and Puritans , and the sentiment was mutual . But Laud was no Romanizer . One of his first public acts was a hard-hitting battle with the Jesuit , Fisher . But anyone who was friendly with James and Charles , the Puritans argued , was necessarily a menace . Or when he found cock-fighting going on in church ? Laud made a positive approach . He set out to increase a sense of reverence . The Prayer Book was to be respected and so was the office of a bishop . Altars should be altars and not any broken down , transportable table which was handy for the most improbable uses . Even worse is to laugh . Tremendous damage may be done to a child by laughing at what are very real fears . As adults , we know that their fears are groundless , indeed to us they appear laughable , but to a child they are very real . Not that I am suggesting that children should be molly-coddled - they must be made to face their fears , to see through them and come out on the other side as victors . To ridicule them only pushes them farther into themselves , so that they become unable to speak about it to anybody and the seeds of any amount of trouble are sown , the harvest of which may still be being reaped at forty or fifty . Far better to agree with a child that a particular situation is frightening , and then to face it together until the child can see how unnecessary its fears were . Because situations which may contain all the elements of fear can arise suddenly , it is a good idea to condition a child to some extent against it . To keep a child of twelve or thirteen under the impression that nothing nasty ever happens is not merely dishonest , it is unwise . As I shall suggest in a later chapter there are some situations which occur less frequently than In Gethsemane He prayed that the cup should pass from Him . Jesus shows us the way to face life . To see all the latent frightening possibilities and yet by facing them and knowing God is with us and that , with Him , there is nothing that can finally defeat us . More than that , that God has something important to do with our lives and that the nearer we get to Him , the stronger we become . ... Today A wonderful thought In the dawn was given ... And the thought Was this : That a secret plan Is hid in my hand ; That my hand is big Big , Because of the plan That God , Who dwells in my hand , Knows this secret plan , Of the things He will do for the world Using my hand . Toyohiko Kagawa . Loving Saviour , who experienced all human emotion , and whose sensitive nature knows better than we do , what it is to be really afraid , help us to know that when we face life boldly , many of the shadows are seen to be allies and not enemies and that , come what may , we are never alone when we are with Thee . To others , the long hours of the night bring only a disturbed tossing and turning which causes them to wake feeling worse than when they went to bed . We may begin to understand this a little better when we realize that tiredness itself is largely in the mind . Very few people , under normal conditions , work themselves to a standstill . The mind tires first and conveys the impression of tiredness to the body . This can be proved by noting the effect of a new stimulus on some- body who feels thoroughly tired . Suppose a mother has news late at night that her child is in danger . She will undertake a journey which , an hour before , she would have declared impossible . Even more simply , test your own reactions to different situations . There are some which bring on an almost immediate feeling of tiredness - such as when your wife mentions the washing-up - while others , if they refer to something you like doing , bring a veritable surge of energy . Many a girl who is ' too tired to help mum ' will later jump up with no apparent tiredness at all when her boy friend calls and go for a long walk . They drag themselves around and can become a burden to their families and their friends . Any mental confusion can cause this and the best way is probably to seek advice . As we are unable to cure our own bodies if the cause of our pain is too deep seated , so we are unable to cure our own minds , if the trouble is a complicated one involving careful and patient treatment . One of the greatest steps forward that has been made this century is the way in which illness of the mind is no longer feared or shunned , and is in fact no differently regarded than physical illness . There is , nevertheless , a great deal of tiredness which comes from no major complication but results from an inability to deal with life , especially under the diverse pattern which is the twentieth century . In the days when most people were born , lived and died within the boundaries of the village , it was not difficult for anybody to live a day at a time . Even those who held a high and responsible office lived in far greater simplicity than their successors . When news from the Continent took days , from America weeks , from the Far East , months , even a Prime Minister could go to sleep in blissful ignorance of what might be happening at the other end of England , In other ways , too , life for the ordinary individual has become so complex that it taxes the mind . Two hundred years ago , men lived and worked in one place , their lives were of one piece . Now a man may live twenty , thirty even sixty miles from his work . The only connexion is the pipeline of the railway on which they travel day by day . In many cases , their homes know little of their place of work and their associates at the office or works wonder what they are possibly like in the surroundings of their homes . It is easy , desperately easy , to lead a ' double ' life without ever deliberately planning to do so or in fact being conscious of what is going on . It is easier to live life in compartments but over the years it builds up , and to do so inevitably builds up tensions which need to be handled correctly . Can we then frame some ' rules ' which may enable us to live life as fully as possible , without having our energy sapped by un- necessary weariness . ( a ) Order makes for a decrease in tiredness . We have a saying ' My head will never save my feet ' . Time after time we forget something and have to go back upstairs or down to the shops . The housewife would find life far less tiring if she made a list , followed a routine of work rather than getting from one thing to the next . The business man would find that he reached the end of the day with far less strain if he was a little more systematic . To drift aimlessly along is more wearying than any- thing else . If we would only sit down and write out all the necessary jobs waiting to be done and then work quietly through them , we would find life considerably less exhausting I am more than conscious of this . How anybody can go through the same routine day in and day out for forty years I find difficult to understand . A lot of it is inevitable so that industry and commerce may be kept going - though if ever it becomes possible to work out a system of ' staggered ' hours it may do an immense amount of good over and above relieving the pressure on over-crowded trains . As it is , with so much of our life already in a predetermined groove , I would hardly like to add further to the dullness which it engenders . But I am not arguing for this . I know how much of a drag it can be and I was interested some little while ago to hear of a school who tried a six- day timetable . They only worked , of course , a five- day week so that in the first week Monday to Friday were days one to five of the timetable , the following Monday was day six and Tuesday started day one again and so on . By this means they avoided each week being the same with a pupil knowing exactly what the subject would be on Friday afternoon at 3 p.m. . It was a little complicated to work , of course , and there had to be a big notice in the entrance saying which day of the timetable it was - but it added immensely to the interest and kept everybody on their toes . To have order does not mean getting into a dull routine . I have great sympathy with the young wife who does not always want to do the washing on a Monday . I would not want to either , but if she wants to get through the day without becoming exhausted , she will be well advised to sit down quietly and make a list of everything she has got to do , note the order in which they can most conveniently be done ( or must be done because of other predetermined factors - you must , for example , do your shopping on the morning of the early closing day ) . She will , in fact , be surprised at what peace of mind ensues . ( b ) Concentrate on one thing at a time . A list or a plan enables us to put all our energies into the particular matter on hand . ( Actually , the Mishnah quotes two further proof texts and the Gemara explains why these , too , are necessary , but a careful examination of that passage makes it clear that these are not quoted here because they are not necessary to prove the point made by R. Joshua b. Levi . ) Finally , we note that the comment of Rami bar Rabh is quoted elsewhere . From the above it follows that here , once again , we have a good illustration of how a sugya has been fashioned from material already in the hands of the Redactors . The sugya is built around the saying of R. Joshua b. Levi . The proof text for the reading of the Book of Esther is quoted with the comment given by Samuel . ( This is probably to be understood as a well- known comment on the verse ; quoted by Samuel in support of his thesis and quoted by the Gemara in support of R. Joshua b. Levi's thesis ! ) The proof text of greeting by the divine Name is taken from the Mishnah . There is no reference to the Mishnah here because the Mishnah deals with the actual practice of greeting by the divine Name and the Gemara here quotes the texts to support the thesis of R. Joshua b. Levi . The question and answer with regard to the need for the text of the angel are quoted here in the same words in which they are quoted in the discussion on the Mishnah . This can either mean that both sugyas are quoting a well-known question and answer or that our sugya is quoting from the longer sugya which deals with all four texts quoted in the Mishnah . Or it is possible that our sugya contains the original question and answer and this is quoted in the other sugya . ( This can be supported by the use of the expression : ' Boaz did it of his own accord but there was no approval of his action in Heaven ' in both sugyoth . Such an expression appears to have been framed in response to the particular point at issue here , whether the Heavenly Court concurred in the decision of the human court . ) The proof text of bringing the tithe to the Temple is then quoted and the interpretation of the latter part of the verse by Rami bar Rabh is added , not because this is at all relevant to the discussion but because it was a familiar interpretation which had become so well known that it was invariably quoted whenever the verse itself was quoted , almost as if it were a part of the verse . The Gemara continues with a saying of the Palestinian teacher , R. Eleazar ( 3rd Cent. ) : ' The Holy Spirit manifested itself in three places : the court of Shem , the court of Samuel of Ramah , and the court of Solomon . ' The place of this saying here is obvious , it follows naturally on the saying of R. Joshua b. Levi which deals with a similar theme . One can remember with horror the pictures of the overcrowded and over-embellished drawing-rooms complete with heavy crochet antimacassars , mantel- piece covers with a fringing of clumsy bobbles and numerous other crocheted pieces . It was some years after the Victorian period that designers realised the potentialities of the craft , and crochet was revived with designs suitable for contemporary trends . Crochet today has a variety of uses , and has even stepped into the field of high fashion . This could hardly happen without the herring having some orientation with the sea bottom . It means that the crowding is caused during the daytime , and that the herring must continue to migrate over the ground as well as in midwater and during the swim ( the swim at East Anglia is always from the north ) . Thus we can see that herring movements , although primarily instinctive perhaps , and certainly helped and hindered by water flow , are also closely related to the sea-bed geography . Geography , too , names the great fisheries that depend on them : the Fladen Ground ( where again most big shots are taken on the edges ) , the Gut , a deep-water channel to the Dogger where the herring spawn along the northern In this 200-fathom trench the herring do not touch the bottom . Their descent stops at the end of the light pressure . But they migrate easterly to the Norwegian side , or westerly , until in the shallower water the mile wide layers disappear from the echo-sounders . Bottom crowding comes when they cannot reach their optimum depth ; and this coincides with the suitable gravelly soil of these many roughs where the spring- spawning herring are always found . The joint evidence of echo-sounders and fishing gear leads to an overall though somewhat dim picture . The details are harder still to see . Drift Effects . At East Anglia , for instance , shoals that gather at the Knoll or other banks are most of them going to travel a hundred miles farther south before they spawn . Some will spawn at the So the arrival of any particular shoal fish at a certain spawning ground may be accidental . Yet there will always be some that find it if enough are travelling , just as the robin who gets back exactly may be only one among thousands who do not . But this southerly migration is not accidental . Being contranatant or against the drift , it probably has a survival value in ensuring that the fry after hatching are drifted back into the normal home Drift in another form probably explains how these migrating herring are biased to east or west by the different winds . Strong westerlies are well known to bring good longshore fishings . The surface water that is blown offshore must be replaced by an underflow bringing with it the herring to the Norfolk and Suffolk beaches . Easterly winds , on the other hand , mean no herring along the shore , as recent years have shown . A succession of winds is needed for this effect of course - one breeze will not do it , though a very hard westerly will often start off the " local " herring ; but quite apart from this wind effect there is an easterly drift special to this rump of coastline , caused by the meeting of water from north and south . Herring fishermen call this " the outset " . It is strongest at spring tides , when without wind you will " set " out - or drift to the east- ward , the length of half a fleet of nets - almost a mile on every tide at the Smith's Knoll . Without an explanation of how it works , it may well be that this outset , akin to the mouth of a great salmon river , has been the biggest factor through the ages in the constancy of this great herring fishery . ( Just how the seine ropes do this is not yet proved ; it may be by actual contact , or by sight reaction to the disturbed sand ; or even in the case of flat fish , by vibrations through or along the bottom . ) But given such a bow wave of disturbance , it is obvious that without something to overcome its effect , very few fish would be caught . Let us consider first what would appear to be the simplest case - that of flat fish on the bottom . The evidence suggest that the fish are aware of the moving footrope before it reaches them . They move away before it , swimming at the same speed for an unknown period of time , until they become ( 1 ) tired , or ( 2 ) more used to the disturbance . Then they stop swimming and are caught . In the seine-net film this usually seemed to happen just after the fish had risen above the footrope , and presumably out of its field of disturbance , or bow wave . This suggests that the wave might be transmitted by the sea-bed , though the footrope in this case was actually just off the bottom and was indeed passing over some fish . Actually the seine net has little or no cover . And in this film the rise of the fish was small , a matter of a foot or two . With round fish like haddock , which would hardly find safety on the bottom , this cover would seem to be even more essential ; but more films are needed to prove this . Cover in the fast-moving trawl is considered essential to catch round fish whose reaction to disturbance would be upwards . They also had to cope with the usual flood of rumours , so- me well meant , some mischievous , including one that a man had been seen fleeing from Vauxhall station on the Thursday evening , with blood actually dripping from his hands . The inquest was opened on February 17 , but , beyond the jury hearing a formal identification of the victim and inspecting at Waterloo the carriage in which she had died , there was nothing on which to proceed , and the inquest was adjourned . Day by day the police followed up likely and even unlikely trails . It was learned that Elizabeth Camp had been lending money to her relatives , and her brother-in-law was asked for a detailed account of his movements on the 11th . The dead woman had been engaged once before - to a barman named Brown . This man agreed that his engagement had been broken off after one particular tiff , but denied that he owed Miss Camp any money . All the while the police were casting about for a man who had been seen leaving the train at Wandsworth . A passenger described this individual as a man of about thirty , of medium height , with a dark moustache , and wearing a frockcoat and a top-hat . The porter at the station bore out this description , but the man was not traced . Perhaps the news of their search got around , for a man did obligingly present himself at Wandsworth police-station , claiming to have committed the murder - but he was mentally defective , and , despite his claim to infamy , had been nowhere near the 7.42 that evening . And so the inquest , which had dragged on , with adjournments , until April 7 , finally had to be content to return a verdict of " wilful murder against some person or persons unknown . " The most vital clue of the Wedgwood pestle had been of no assistance . The killer must have been very thankful that the science of dactyloscopy was only in its beginnings . The next female fatality occurred eight years later , yet so strange were the circumstances that it was a further seven years before even a ghost of a solution emerged . There has always been something sinister in the idea of tunnels . The building of them was one of the most dangerous jobs con- nected with railway construction ; and there were many people who believed that to travel through tunnels would be an equally hazardous business . Some thought that the result would be all sorts of horrible illnesses brought on by the confined atmosphere . " The shareholders who travel by it will be so heartily sick , what with the foul air , smoke and sulphur , that the mention of a railway will be worse than Ipecacuanha , " wrote an anti-railway industrialist when it was proposed to build the Box Tunnel . The mere thought of subterranean travel gave others a feeling of danger . A medical journal said , " the deafening peal of thunder , the sudden immersion in gloom , and the clash of reverberated sounds in a confined space combine to produce a momentary shudder , or idea of destruction , a thrill of annihilation . " It was also prophesied that passengers would be robbed and assaulted in the darkness . For all that , as far as England is concerned , there have been only two occasions on which a body has been found in a tunnel in circumstances pointing to murder . The first was that of Mr Gold , in the famous Lefroy case , and by an odd chance the second tragedy occurred on the same line , although this time the victim was a woman . Though in the minds of most people there was no doubt that the woman had been the victim of foul play , the verdict brought in was that there was not sufficient evidence to show whether she had fallen or been thrown from a train . The Merstham Tunnel , on the London-to- Brighton line , is approximately one mile long , and some time before midnight on September 24 , 1905 , a Sunday , Sub-Inspector Peacock , of the London , Brighton and South Coast Railway , It was the battered and broken body of a woman . He sent word straight away to near-by Merstham Station , and a stretcher party took the body to the Feathers Hotel to await identification . Was it a case of suicide , where some unhappy soul had walked deliberately into the blackness and into the path of some train ? This hardly seemed likely , since , when she was examined by a local doctor , the woman , young , small , and rather plump , was found to have her own silk scarf drawn almost tight enough to strangle her , and the ends thrust in her mouth like a gag . Both her wrists bore the marks of severe bruising , and there were other injuries on her body which had occurred before her death was ensured by some train which had roared through the tunnel . There were no letters or papers found on her to assist identi fication , no money , and no railway ticket . By then reports were being gathered about all traffic over this stretch of line , but no information was forthcoming about any carriage with an open door , nor any passenger reporting an incident which might relate . So the body of this small girl with the blue eyes and long brown hair in a bun at the back of her head remained a mystery until later the following day . During that time a description of the girl was circulated , and a Mr Robert Money came forward to identify her as his sister , Mary Money , aged twenty-two . The girl , who was described as being " always bright and jolly , " had been unmarried , and lived at Lavender Hill , Clapham , on the premises of a dairyman , Bridger , for whom she worked as a book-keeper . On the Sunday , the day of her death , she had gone out in the evening at about seven o'clock , telling her room-mate , Emma Hone , that she was going for a walk , but would not be gone for long . According to Miss Hone , she had not been carrying a handbag , but she believed she had had a small purse . SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher told us that there was nothing an En- glishman would not do ; nothing an Ame- rican would not say ; nothing an Italian would not sing ; no music to which the Frenchman would not dance ; nothing the German would not covet ; and nothing the Chinese would not eat . SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher told us that there was nothing an Englishman would not do ; nothing an American would not say ; nothing an Italian would not sing ; no music to which the Frenchman would not dance ; nothing the German would not covet ; and nothing the Chinese would not eat . It is not our purpose to discuss this dictum . Suffice to say that few of us stop to marvel at the progress of civilisation which allows a dish borrowed straight from the prehistoric . How many centuries ago , in some cave or hilly hide , did our forebears home from the chase hold forth from a spear the welcome gobbet of meat or fish burnt and roasted in the homely and protecting flame . How many centuries later did the mercenary in the Roman wars thus impale on pike or lance his evening meal . Later came the thrifty peasant , later still the young Victorian buck adventuring in Paris , and even later our attractive young ladies toying with these primitive morsels in the gleam and glitter of our latter-day restaurants . And , if certain dishes and modes of food have persisted down the ages , the motive that preserved them has always been the same . Apart from the need for nourishment , the instinct of hospitality has always been strong in mankind . The sharing of a meal in those earliest dangerous days was an admittance into an acquaintanceship far more important than the casual meetings of the present day ; the desire to share something more intimate than mere converse has always been there . The truth is that good food offers a programme of entertainment almost unlimited in its variety and its presen- tation affords an opportunity of showing a guest something of ourselves . It is a far enough cry from the primitive meal-times of a simpler world to the banquets of later days , when the table groaned under its load of complicated dishes , and for all the blossoming of the arts around them the diners were little There was always the spice of an orgy in those Roman feasts , for instance , with all their peacocks and nightingales' tongues ; unreasonable surfeit , too , in the elaborate fashion of eating brought out of Italy into France , we are told , by Catherine de Medici . The peasant in those days , as ever , ate sparingly , but generously enough in his own fashion , save at feast times , when he , too , let himself go ; and it was from his simpler Epicures and gourmands , sated by the unending procession of dishes from those mammoth kitchens of the 18th century - that amazing epoch of grossness and delicacy - sought inspiration at last from the dishes of the country , and , instead of gorging the eye with magnitude , began to understand the value of intelligent selection and comparative simplicity , though nowadays their simplified meals would seem quite monstrous . Epicures and gourmands , sated by the unending procession of dishes from those mammoth kitchens of the 18th century - that amazing epoch of grossness and delicacy - sought inspiration at last from the dishes of the country , and , instead of gorging the eye with magnitude , began to understand the value of intelligent selection and comparative simplicity , though nowadays their simplified meals would seem quite Does one , however , know who first thought of boiling water and food ? The ancient Britons , I believe , used to make water hot by dropping a red-hot poker into it , because their pots would not stand fire ; but Jacob must have had one that would , because Esau sold his birthright to him for a mess of pottage - and then we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt after which the Israelites sighed . Does one , however , know who first thought of boiling water and food ? The ancient Britons , I believe , used to make water hot by dropping a red-hot poker into it , because their pots would not stand fire ; but Jacob must have had one that would , because Esau sold his birthright to him for a mess of pottage - and then we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt after which the Israelites sighed . Anyhow , Homer does not seem to have known any way of cooking meat except by roasting and boiling . When Achilles gave a royal feast the principal dish was a grill , which he cooked himself , and he knew how to do it , too : - When the languid flames at length subside , He throws a bed of glowing embers wide ; Above the coals the smoking fragment turns , And sprinkles sacred salt from lifted urns Anyhow , Homer does not seem to have known any way of cooking meat except by roasting and boiling . When Achilles gave a royal feast the principal dish was a grill , which he cooked himself , and he knew how to do it , too : - When the languid flames at length subside , He throws a bed of glowing embers wide ; Above the coals the smoking fragment turns , And sprinkles sacred salt from lifted urns . When , however , the Greeks did learn the art of making fireproof earthenware from the Egyptians , their cookery made rapid progress , because they were men of taste and intellect . A remarkable peculiarity in the banquets of the ancient world was the fact that they did not confine the resources of the table to the gratification of one sense alone . Having exhausted their invention in the preparation of stimulants for the palate , they broke fresh ground and called another sense to their aid . By delicate application of odours and richly-distilled perfumes , these refined voluptuaries aroused the fainting appetite and added a more exquisite and ethereal enjoyment to the grosser pleasures of the board . The gratification of the sense of smelling was a subject of no little importance to the Romans . They considered flowers as forming a very essential article in their festal preparations ; and it is the opinion of Bassius that at their desserts the number of flowers far exceeded the number of fruits . According to Pliny , and others , certain herbs and flowers proved of sovereign power clarifying the functions of the brain . It is said that there is nothing new under the sun , but regarding foodstuffs the traveller occasionally encounters a certain measure of novelty . In China , for instance , dried rats are esteemed a delicacy . The visitor is told that they restore the hair of the bald and that a stewed black rat will ward off a fever . A number of newly-born white mice served alive , dipped in treacle and swallowed like a prairie oyster is considered a piece of resistance . Among the natives of Northern Australia lizards roasted on the point of a spear are definitely a delicacy while Mediterranean peoples have a high opinion of the octopus as an article of diet . So have the Japanese and the Chinese . The Celestials , apart from eating it fresh , squash it , press it and dry it , in which form , dusted over with flour , you will find a stack of it in almost any provision shop . Foodlore reflects much more of national temperament than is customarily imagined as well as entering human activities to a greater extent than is usually assumed . We naturally cannot overlook that Magyar cookery owes one of its most classic features to the Turkish rule under which the Hungarians groaned for nearly 200 years . If that country had not been for so long a battlefield red with the blood shed to defend Christian civilisation , Hungary would have been deprived of the condiment which provides many Magyar dishes with a vivid and brilliant The Austrian cuisine embraces the delectable 6Wiener Schnitzel as well as dishes and stews heightened with aromatics where the paprika insinuates its perfidious fire , aerian creams , ingenious pastries and a crescent-shaped breakfast roll created by a pastry cook to celebrate the victory against the Turks in 1683 . Spanish cookery is reminiscent of bull-fights , of Spanish dancing and of Goja : it is vivid , highly coloured , sometimes Quixotic and withal it has a sombre ardour , with streaks of poetry , meat disguised under heavy and vehement The Czechoslovak kitchen , again , is so languorous , so passionate , and possibly comparable alone to a gypsy melody . The paprika and caraway perfume the meats with their antithesis . The opulent varieties of Czechoslovak past- ries recall in fact the rich heritage of rich embroideries and costumes specifically national . The art and science of cookery , however , is essentially French , and , irrespective of The French have an inborn appreciation of good food and the gusto which they derive from gastronomy is intellectual and aesthetic as well as physical . There is the same finesse about their feeding , the same subtle delicacy of touch , the same unfailing sense of proportion as exists among her writers , music composers and other exponents of things that are typically French . The French have an inborn appreciation of good food and the gusto which they derive from gastronomy is intellectual and aesthetic as well as physical . There is the same finesse about their feeding , the same subtle delicacy of touch , the same unfailing sense of proportion as exists among her writers , music composers and other exponents of things that are typically French . The " pot-au-feu " is as much a national institution in France as is tea drinking among ourselves and it is prepared at least once a week in every bourgeois household . Thackeray , of course , waxed enthusiastic about Bouilla- baisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is , A sort of soup , or broth , or brew , A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich never could outdo ; Green herbs , red peppers , The " pot-au-feu " is as much a national institution in France as is tea drinking among ourselves and it is prepared at least once a week in every bourgeois household . Thackeray , of course , waxed enthusiastic about Bouillabaisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is , A sort of soup , or broth , or brew , A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich never could outdo ; Green herbs , red peppers , mussels , saffron , Soles , onions , garlic , roach and dace . A fascinating study also opens up in the dietary welcomed by men of genius as well as the foods for which they have had an aversion . Shelley , for example , had a great contempt for animal food , believing that it impaired the intellectual faculties . Bunyan's break- fast and supper consisted of a piece of coarse bread and a bowl of milk . A fascinating study also opens up in the dietary welcomed by men of genius as well as the foods for which they have had an aversion . Shelley , for example , had a great contempt for animal food , believing that it # impaired the intellectual faculties . Bunyan's breakfast and supper consisted of a piece of coarse bread and a bowl of milk . Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes in food . At one dinner he is said to have been blind to the charms of turbot and to have been much more interested in the dish in which it was served . He turned it over on the table cloth to examine the marks on the back without going through the formality of having his turbot removed first . Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes in food . At one dinner he is said to have been blind to the charms of turbot and to have been much more interested in the dish in which it was served . He turned # it over on the table cloth to examine the marks on the back without going through the formality of having his turbot removed first . Wagner was a highly practical feeder . He ate very fast , placing his food in his mouth and gulping it down as he talked . Brigham Young would make a dinner on tripe which he washed down with beer . A writer who had dinner with Dickens says the menu was Whitstable oysters , a brown sole , a baked leg of mutton with oyster & veal stuffing and a gin punch . The same man went to see Carlyle , and , after mentioning that he had dined with Longfellow told the sage a very funny story which made Carlyle absolutely laugh ; but all the Chelsea philosopher did in return was to ask if his guest would have a cup of tea ! It was naturally a highly popular victory with the Londoners , but it brought heavy censure from nobles who still believed that they had a monopoly of leadership . But , at last , Gaunt sailed . Opposing him was the French Admiral , Jean de Vienne - a great sailor and an able strategist . Obedient to the policy of his King , de Vienne avoided trouble at sea as cleverly as Du Guesclin avoided it on land . Gaunt was compelled to give up his search for an elusive foe , and , afraid to return home without something to show , he foolishly attempted to besiege the well-protected fortress of St Malo . This involved the dreary method of mining operations in which Gaunt , under the Black Prince , had shown considerable skill at the siege of Limoges . When all seemed to be going well , a sortie surprised moment had charge of the mine ; the mine collapsed fame and glory . Gaunt was compelled to return even despised failure . The ' ribald ' Londoners , who Hawley , were also expressing their disappointment comparing the failure of a subsidized duke citizen . These dreary years of ineffective fighting provide obvious morals for those who are judges long after the event . It seems obvious that , though the longbows of yeomen could pierce the plate and mail of French knights , a brilliant battle was no substitute for a sound policy , and that , if archers had no target , campaigns became mere marauding route marches . It seems obvious that if an expedition to Brittany was compelled to attack via Calais , then the primary essential to the success of the French war was a navy in unquestioned command of the Channel . It seems obvious that divided forces were dissipating the advantages of a ring of bridge-heads which included Calais , Cherbourg , Brest , Bordeaux and Bayonne , and that there was no hope of final victory without a large-scale and concentrated invasion . In this cruel process which was hammering out nations on the anvils of war , there was a constant stirring of those in authority to find some simple way out of the complicated financial 6impasse which always resulted , and in the story of the experiments and expedients to which the Exchequer resorted is the story of the prelude to the Peasants' Revolt of 1381 . In appreciating this story , modern con- ceptions of governmental duties must be set aside . A modern government needs taxation not merely for defence and offence but for a very wide range of social services . A mediaeval oligarchy needed taxation in order to supplement the private wealth of the monarchy ( the royal income from the revenues of crown lands , the fees of feudalism Social service as a function of government was quite alien to mediaeval thought - its substitute was the mutual self-help of communities , whether those communities were monasteries , manors , townships , or wards and guilds of a city . A mediaeval tax was therefore in essence a forced payment whose return was the uncertain bounty of booty and the vague advantages of military glory ; it was therefore always granted grudgingly and coupled with the vain hope that , in the When ' his ' war did not bring victory and booty , a new group of Lords might oust the unsuccessful leaders , and the Commons , who usually supplied the hard cash , might be bold enough to demand the production of accounts , and even at times the impeachment of the unsuccessful . But the Commons were not the people , and even a full Parliament was not yet a true mirror of the nation . The people - Langland's ' folk ' and Gaunt's ' knaves ' - were villeins still tied to the feudal obligations of work or villeins who had bought their release , free labourers who worked for the highest bidders , free yeomen who had prospered enough to become successful farmers , the artisans , craftsmen , journeymen and small tradesmen of the towns , and the retainers and men-at-arms in the pay of landed Lords . None of these classes , except the yeomen , paid or expected to pay direct taxes . During the four- teenth century , the traditional methods of financing the Exchequer had become stabilized . When the King and his Council required additio- nal funds , they were usually granted an export tax on the wool trade , collected by means of that ' staple ' system which ensured that prices , quality and tax could be efficiently su- pervised and controlled , together with a There were two other sources of public revenue - first , the Church , which wisely followed the lead of the Commons and in its own Convocations granted equivalent contributions , and second , the foreign merchants , with whom the King's officials had formerly made private bargains at ' colloquies of merchants ' , and whose payments were now authorized by parliamentary sanction at a rate roughly fifty per cent in excess of the rate for native merchants . In addition to these revenues , the King had the financial benefits of his position at the head of the feudal system , as its chief landowner and the recipient of the fines of royal justice . It was , therefore , a complicated and not very satisfactory financial system in which the borders between private and public purse were as ill-defined as the borders between private and national war , and in which the comparati- vely simple obligations of the feudal pyramid But this time there was a very interesting attempt to apply a sliding scale to the payments demanded . The definition of an adult was altered to read ' over sixteen ' , and , where the poorest were to pay a groat , the Duke of Lancaster and the Archbishops of Canterbury and York were to pay ten marks , and between these two extremes a graduated scale of payments was fixed for the different classes of laymen and clerics . Again the resentment was widespread and the results disappointing - a tax estimated to yield 50,000 in fact raised only 27,000 . In the following year , 1380 , the last and most notorious third poll-tax was agreed by a Parliament which met at Northampton . There were dark reasons for a meeting so far away from the capital in a town with poor communications and not over supplied with hostelries and lodgings . London was again in turmoil ; but this time over a question of trade rivalry . A rich mer- chant from Genoa had been murdered , and John de Kyrkby , a Londoner , was one of those charged with the crime . It is clear from the chronicles that this was a sordid quarrel between monopolists and interlopers . The city merchants were jealous of foreign merchants who could tempt court and baronage with rarer luxuries than those Trebling the rate was arrived at by a simple arithmetic which argued that , as the first poll-tax had supplied 22,000 , a tax of three times the rate would produce 66,000 . The only concession made in view of the objections to the first two poll-taxes was the suggestion that the rich should help the poor - but this was only a pious hope because no machinery was provided for carrying it into effect , and a subordinate In Chapter Two he gauged the nature of the heart's movements from the dissection of living animals , showing how these move- ments alternate with rests and are seen best in cold animals or in flagging warmer ones . At the time of its movement the heart becomes generally constricted , its walls thicken , its ventricles decrease in volume and it expels its content of blood , appearing paler in so doing in animals such as serpents , frogs , and the like . At one and the same time , therefore , occur the beat of the apex , the thickening of the heart walls , and the forcible expulsion of their contained blood by the contraction of the ventricles . Going on in Chapter Three to the movement of the arteries , likewise gauged from the dissections of living animals , Harvey noted that contraction of the heart and the apex beat occur in systole , simultaneously with dilatation of the arteries and of the artery-like vein , and expulsion of the ventricular content . Arterial pulsation disappears with cessation of ventricular contraction . During cutting or puncture of the ventricles , there is often forcible expulsion of blood from the wound . Arterial diastole is thus synchronous with cardiac systole but , when movement of blood through arteries is hindered by compression , infarction or inter- ception , the more distal arteries pulsate less because their pulse is nothing other than the impulse of the blood entering them . ' And while the heart is slowly dying , one can sometimes see it - so to speak - rouse itself and , in reply to two or three auricular beats , produce a single ventricular one slowly and reluctantly and with an effort . ' Sentence Database Yet in spite of the fact that his ideas did his business no good George would never conceal them . He was a socialist and believed in the right of the working class to control their own destiny , and said so . Being a craftsman and a skilled man , George won many prizes , and though some people would have nothing to do with him , others would , and the comrades helped in many ways . When eventually the ovens were fixed at the new shop , the tremen- dously hard work was if anything intensified . George used to mix 100 stone of bread in 12 hours , and Kate served in the shop , which was open from 8 o'clock in the morning to 12 o'clock at night . At that time pastries and buns were sold at 32 pieces for one shilling . Soon they were good enough to sing at meetings . One of the helpful by-products was that they were able to obtain some respectable clothing , with which they wore a white tie and Red Flag badge , thus presenting a much better appearance . Later , on many a sunny Sunday evening , when George went to speak at Malin Bridge , they would be there to begin the meeting . As they became known the Choir went to working- men's clubs , to Conisborough on cheap trips to sing to the miners , and sang for other organisations such as the Bakers' Union , for whom they went on Satur- day evenings to the Corner Pin Hotel , to rally the members . The B.S.P. also rented pleasant rooms on West Street , where a successful Sunday school was held . One of the students was young George , and another the dark-haired little granddaughter of Charlie Grant . George often spoke at the Sunday school . He christened the babies . Also , when called upon to do so , he would officiate at funerals . Religion was one of his pet subjects , for being well acquainted with the Bible , which he had read in prison where it was the only book they were allowed , Although his ideas were diametrically opposed to those of parsons he got on wonderfully well with them , particularly those who , like the Rev. Conrad Noel , the eloquent leader of the Church Socialist League , genuinely advocated socialism . With such men , who had the courage of their convictions and their Christianity , common ground could be found . There was no abatement in political work . The British Socialist Party endea- voured to get more socialist members sent to the Council , and to Parliament , being deter- mined and obdurate in their attitude that their candidate must go forward in the elections . In the Sheffield Trades and Labour Council meeting on October 16 , 1912 , George had said , ' Mr. Barton would go to the poll . Just as the Labour Party had fought the Liberals , they were going to fight the Labour Alf Barton , who in 1911 was presented with a book on the life of Marx , and a gold purse in recognition of his work for the movement , was later known to say that it was not ne- cessary to understand Marxism in order to understand socialism , though at this time he was a keen member of the B.S.P. . After the First World War , 1914 , I did not visit Germany for ten years , by which time in 1924 I was in a different parish in Surrey . Towards the end of my five and a half years' incumbency I was asked if I would start a village choral society and conduct it . This opened up a new interest , and we plunged into it . But what a change from the dear little old church at Tatsfield to the great modern church of St. Mark's at Purley . One felt at Tatsfield that , small as the church was , it had its own atmosphere , and for centuries had been a House of Prayer . I could not but feel the chilliness of the new church , beautiful as it was and is . When we had found a group of people who gladly co-operated , we made the little side chapel a place of daily prayer . I suggested to the congregation that it needed warming up by constant prayer and worship , and we found many to help . Gifts of candlesticks and stained-glass lancet windows - finally a new altar - helped to furnish the chapel as a little sanctuary for prayer and quiet . In time we received similar gifts for the High Altar , and large East and West windows . It was very interesting to have the privilege of filling such a beautiful building with suitable fittings ; I made a rule that all gifts should be submitted for approval to the architect , himself a fine artist . It is quite possible to put beautiful things into a beautiful church and yet spoil the building with ornaments unsui- table to the environs . Meanwhile in Purley there was much activity and much co-operation especially with the other Christian communities . At a large public meeting we launched the project known as the ' Coulsdon and Purley Patriotic Fund ' in whose counsels and committees I found myself deeply involved . At first , the main work was to help wives and relations of the soldiers to get their ' Separation ' allowances , but soon , alas ! , as casualties began and increased in the winter of 1914 and 1915 the matter of War Pensions became very urgent , and I was asked to be Chairman of the Committee in Coulsdon and Purley . Indeed , for the next seventeen years , during my time at Purley , and from 1922 at Surbiton , I was continuously Chairman of the local War Pensions Committee . This task involved a very great deal of detailed work for the Committee . We had a splendid body of local residents , and a series of excellent Honorary Secretaries . Our Committee met once a week in the evenings , and included professional men from every walk of life . When he saw Trelawny's printed letter , Lord Sidney wrote to Douglas Kinnaird saying that it was incorrect throughout . He had no sooner heard from Count Gamba and Fletcher that Byron would have wished his body to return to England than that course was ' immediately carried into effect ' - not in spite of himself and Sir Frederick Stoven , but with their perfect con- currence , while ' General Adam was at Corfu the whole time and # never interfered in the slightest degree about the matter ' . Their friendship for Augusta became rather hollow , and the news that Byron had left her practically all his money caused it to crumble to oblivion . Though Lady Byron knew perfectly well that Byron , as early as the year of their wedding , 1815 , had made a will in Augusta's favour , she had evidently not passed on that information ; and it came as an appalling surprise to Captain Byron that he had been left without the fortune that would keep up the title . He rose from his breakfast-nook bench and came into the livingroom , where Heather and Steve stood aghast at his entrance . He came , almost falling forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck thrust out , arms dangling loosely . Then , abruptly , he drew himself up and walked on the very tips of his toes . He stretched his arms over his head and yawned agape , drawing-in great breaths that became great sighs of ecstacy . " They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his hands together between his knees and leaning forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited transcendent event , the exalted desire of all mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes upward and shook his head slowly from side to side . A superfluous precaution for there was no other car abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait at an intersection for the light to change . At his apartment he garaged his car and then stood listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart loses its beat in death . Deadly stillness , deadly portent ! Steve awakened early and switched on the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO. The set lighted-up but gave only a low buzzing sound . He had just finished shaving when it came on , with a flat voice repeating : " This is BBC calling ... this is BBC calling ... " Coming around the great mass of the Chateau Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A flying saucer was tilting and dipping over the War Memorial . There was a deep whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing overtone that sang in his ears with an almost painful sharpness . He reversed and turned back on McKenzie Avenue . " The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to take charge , as it were , of the minds of the people - who are probably falling all over them- selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es- caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no longer have any immunity . There can be little doubt that if the Thetans discover our mental independence they will promptly give us their hypnotic treatment . If we can avoid undue prominence , it may be that we can move about pretty freely without detection . If we can - well , then we may be able to promote our own interests . What those interests are , beyond personal security , I haven't a clue ; but , who knows , we may form the nucleus around ... There is just a hope that we may uncover some weakness , and find a way of fighting back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra- ting how the Thetan machinations had been working out . It occurred to Steve that this may not have been entirely an objective suggestion on her part ; but he thought it a good idea nevertheless . So they proceeded to see if the coast was clear . The street was quiet and deserted , and there were neither sight nor sound of flying saucers . So they ventured forth and made their way on foot to Dan's house . Dan came to the door at their ring but neglected to offer any greeting . He was deeply preoccupied , and it seemed that the ringing of a doorbell was to him a new and strange phenomenon . When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action gave the impression of having been thought out and decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware of their presence . They just stared at him , turning their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and down , up and down . His whole attitude was a mixture of impatience pending an awaited communication and of a vague perplexity respecting his surroundings and the purpose he was to serve . Finally , being so obviously on their own , Heather and Steve tried to make themselves at home . Steve switched on Dan's powerful , world-wide radio and systematically turned the tuning knob through all the tuning points of the world's great radio They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street . But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies . First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of a single all-exclusive purpose . Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of real days and would return to New York in late January or early February . Angelina might be a little sorry if we were not back for Christmas as arranged , but he consoled himself by thinking that he and Angelina would have plenty of time together in the future . And Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be back on Moon again , and able to do research at first hand into matters on which the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ... They had been married for six years , but the salary raise , on the expectation of which they had done so , had not materialised . " Do you know , I had to send back our bedroom furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She had contacts in political circles , a school- friend of hers having married Lester Peron , a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the ( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release Board . Hostettler Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal . All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent to 4sub-lil on the lower . All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo- sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere . One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires , especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable that they would be in the next one , Moon and her allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the weapons pronounced conventional . Lester was not home yet from his formidable duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we , Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics . Sentence Database That's how he got the votes , that's how we came through to 4makrodeb status and got all these lovely things " - she waved a plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc : at the same time a door banged - " but don't say a word about it , Lester wants his mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time has come for him to be taken seriously as a statesman . " But privately he turned out to be as friendly as Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer by training , and suspected that the points he made so sharply in international politics were as abstract to him as those a lawyer makes in a court of law . The political life of Aristotle looked more and more like a masquerade of business interests in dis- guise which , far from attracting the allegiance of free men everywhere , could only repel them . Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per- haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse which might in time become social fact and counteract the obsession with economics which had grown up during the Moon's first two centuries ? Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one worried little man-student who kept getting out of step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his minions could do to him would ever make him GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary neurosis and not in some eruption from those deeper layers in the human psyche which are trans-economic . So once again the metaphysics were depressing , and in absolute contrast to the physical display . Mos have an un-American love of parades , and these young ones , on parade for jobs which they had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally putting their best foot forward . ' Something's up , ' said Lord Undertone , carefully casual . ' The servants are all on edge ... did you notice ? And the mules didn't seem to want to get off the raft . ' He peered as it were into the dark secrets of the jungle . ' Think there's Indians about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie night , exceptionally brilliant and strange , for in the proximity of the mountains , whose presence I could almost smell , ' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I'm a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I've got a queer feeling , like I always get when something sensational's going to happen . There's things lurking if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ... head-shrinkers . Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking , no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . ' ' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship may have thought I had become unbalanced through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned to other day , my lord . A being of whom the forest Indians are said to be mortally afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me a moment ... ' Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely Mr Septimus stood in the same case as myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself to entertain for an instant the idea , the strange , the unwelcome , the almost inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival would be inopportune ; and with the idea came a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused , to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ... But all three were to the casual observation I permitted myself unruffled ; Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed we were all invaded by a most tranquil mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing , so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and savage tribes never approached this region : at any rate they remained with us , perhaps for such protection as our presence , or Mrs But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never far from our minds that at any moment we were to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake . " Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step . " Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late . She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas . So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere , on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their damn bus . " Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It's supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . " " Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said , reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . " " And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded . " What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy . The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen was , as he feared , departed out of his life , he still loved her dearly . Already , even as with trembling fingers he fastened his trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in some dreadful ravine , or beset by robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency Ward 10 . But even his imagination , luckily for him , did not visualise the awful truth - that Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . " " Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little Cadwallader when his child mind grasped the fact that the green earth was falling away at a rate of knots . Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply to the conductor , demanding an explanation . But nonplussed , the conductor was . A good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of depth in this particular instance . Fingered his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of the window . Went and consulted the driver . " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader . " Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver . " But something very untoward has happened , if you ask me . " Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper , folded it , and glanced idly out of the window . Looked again , eyes starting from his head . " God bless my immortal soul , " he cried . " Never mind your immortal soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly . " Here we are traversing the heavens at the very moment when we should be running into Llangrwl bus station . And no one doing the first thing about it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter . " Radio Flying Control at London Airport , is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards . " It's all very well , " commented Mr. Hayball from the back seat . " But Eth and me wanted to be at the Youth Hostel before dark . " Morfydd Owen was silent . But she looked down at the fast-disappearing earth , and it seemed to her that she would never see her Dai again . And though half an hour ago she had regarded this possibility with fortitude , it now filled her with dismay . Quietly she began to weep ... Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling furiously on the road . Not a sign of the bus . He passed The Traveller's Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts , walking very dogged towards Llangrwl . " Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite , as he shot past . His spirits were rising . He had seen no sign of an accident . Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken . He would find the bus safe and sound in Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly But disappointment awaited him . A restive queue of people in the bus station , waiting to be transported to Dinas . And when he went to Morfydd's house , all he found was Morfydd's mam , working herself up proper ... Getting dark , now . The conductor switched on the lights . The beleaguered passengers peered out of the windows . Little to be seen , only a few lone stars , and the distant earth brooding in her shroud of mist . Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and conductor peered ahead into nothingness . On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The Rev. Edwards , standing at the front , looked at his forlorn flock . " What about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? " he suggested hopefully . They looked at him , sullen . His heart sank . If the Welsh found the situation too desperate for singing , then the situation , he realised , must be desperate indeed . But suddenly they were roused from their lethargy . Something was approaching , faster , faster , a tearing hurrying blur that was past and gone in a moment , followed by a great rush of sound . They waved frantically . " Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev. Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . " He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing a great basket . " Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully . Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking . " Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , " said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head . " Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for , too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket . Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? " he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter , two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . " ' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - ' ' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said . ' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some things we will tell you . All who make the journey from the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies . When you come here , when you come to the True World , you become a true human . The grub of the tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and Flor were listening . ' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , ' Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here . Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had heedlessly thrown down their souls . Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable ! ' You see . You needed them no more . You are still young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong , as we are . Some may be born right . ' ' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move well we can - think . This tribe of the True World is good and knows these things . So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? ' The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected , making his perpetual little gesture of protest , spoke for the first time . ' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because we are Captives , we have the time to talk and think and plan and know . Those who know command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added . ' You will live among us and enjoy your life free from harm . ' ' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths . ' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless - must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World and its savage life are still fresh in you . We need such memories . So we ask you to go back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? ' gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to everlasting night . Motion there was , but motion without event - except for those negligible events that seemed so large to the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated with their wings soon died away as the wonderful new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World had no place here . Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had been inclined to regard women as something which must necessarily be subordinated to his career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl whom he had never met and on whom after no more than a couple of telephone calls he was prepared to place complete reliance . It was a novel experience . Alastair was quite unable to explain why he should feel so much confidence in her . Once again she checked back her instructions . It was obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the faith which he was placing in her and was prepared to accept the responsibility . " Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I'll be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you both at midnight . " They might have been arranging a supper party . Then she rang off . Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether uneventful life had he come across a girl who sounded so charming and appeared to be so efficient . For some reason the orderlies had forgotten to switch on the lights ; there was no colour - physical features were distinguishable solely by gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow- capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles below , was not recognisable among the host of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots flickered across its surface , but there was no permanent image . In the exceptional clarity he was even able to make a direct comparison between the radar image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the left , Milan . The directional angle of the scanner could be adjusted to cover any particular area within its range . Geoffrey turned the scale slowly to cover the ground immediately ahead . He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle was resting could really mean hundreds of knots . Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft dipped slightly . The needle of the speed recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0 before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We're a bit ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We'll run in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey smiled . Alastair talked of running in when they were still more than four hundred miles from their destination . They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port . He was able to trace the course of the river ; he thought he could recognise the route of N12 , along which he had motored so desperately little more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then he had flown to England , attended the vital conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked by special helicopter from the Horse Guards Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds of the journey back to the place where every indication pointed to Eve being held . Geoffrey set himself to consider the movements of the Bentley . It had passed him at the temporary bridge over the Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the previous night . He worked out the distance on the presumption that its route had been through Florence and Rome and then across Italy via Foggia to Barletta . It came to just over six hundred miles . To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling . But it did not take her long to realise that his mood was less pleasant than appeared on the surface . He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family - to come over and make the presentation in her stead . " I caught him just as he was going to the airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter of fact I'd asked him last night to deputise for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party too . They're both here . " " I didn't know she was coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl said the first thing that came into her head . Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl suggested having a second party , the following week , he poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared , had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile Hubert would have betaken himself and his well- earned gratuity to his native village at the north of the island . It was all over and done with . For the time being Beryl was content to let it go at that , but she resolved to have it out with Piers when a reasonable opportunity presented itself . He must learn that he could not treat her with injustice and contempt , ignoring her explanations as though he were a schoolmaster and she a small , ignorant child . He gave her no chance of any private conversation that evening , for when Blanche and Jack left , he went with them . But next morning she insisted on his taking her out in the jeep - to find , if possible , Hubert and his relations , and tell them of her great disappointment at being held up in Balicou . With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his Boxer , to the back , and made room for her beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? " he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want to make you understand just what happened about this Balicou trip , " she returned coldly . " I'm a little tired of being treated like an ineffective imbecile . " " And I'm heartily sick of being constantly called to account for my manners , " he retorted . " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack to make the presentation , I run the damned party to the best of my ability - saying the sugary things you ought to have been there to say - and all you can do is to find fault . " " It's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You look as though it was only what you expected of me , as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert and his pals down . " " As your employee it's not my business to understand all the whys and wherefores of your actions , " he said stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . " " Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers ! Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough path fringed and shaded by citrus trees . " If you want my true opinion I'll give it . You made some sort of a protest to Graybury . I'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press the matter because , very naturally , you were thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness' sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his equally indignant rejoinder . " I know . Absurd as it may seem , I didn't want you to think badly of me . " She turned away from him to fondle Judy , who , sensing something amiss , was nudging her in the endeavour to gain her attention . " The truth is that if I had absolutely insisted on sailing at the time originally arranged , Sir John would have had it in for Guy . You see , it was , apparently , through a mistake on Guy's part that we missed seeing the flamingoes our first morning on the island . " " What harm could possibly have come to Forrest through Sir John's nonsense ? " Piers could hardly have spoken with more contempt . A bully like that respects anyone who dares to stand up to him . " Beryl tried to suppress the thought that this was precisely the remark she had made to Guy . She said icily , " As you pride yourself on your knowledge of all the affairs of the island I needn't tell you that Sir John Graybury is one of Mr. Hewson's most important customers . " " So what ? You're not trying to say that Hewson would victimise Forrest for behaving with ordinary moral courage ! He's quite capable of telling Sir John to take himself and his business to an unmention- able destination . " " There's a difference between what a senior and a junior partner can do , " was her quick reply . " What they can bring off ! I'll admit that . But Forrest might at least have tried . He's pretty spineless ! " " You think you could have carried more weight with Sir John ? " she enquired cuttingly . " For all your good opinion of yourself , I doubt it . He's about as easy to push around as - as a grounded whale ! " He had to smile at that , but went on airily , " I'd have made an attempt to show my lady-love that I put her interests before my own . Their air of smiling somnolence showed them to have been guests at yesterday's celebrations , and their friendly welcome and warm sympathy , as she explained how she had come to miss the party , made her send a complacent glance in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the man was , she thought impatiently , trying to worry her into the belief that her failure to appear at a function on the estate was a major error : And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl " would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back at the Villa in time . That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles , took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling . 3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers . We all know how Balicou Island dangerous to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big rocks in an' out o' de water . He had almost entirely settled back into his old ways , even to reading law about two hours each day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the judge always had on the table at dinner , he did not act as though he found it necessary except in moderate compliance with his father's habit . Around that rounded rocky promontory where the white spray could be seen flying across the distance of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so close to the rocks that it would be dashed against them with the lift of the next wave . " That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ? What does time mean when weighed against the life of two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of being flung against the huge boulders did the judge empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them with part of that howling northwest gale . " My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy is going to try to make a landing on the weather side of that pier ! He'll wreck ! " Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant black eyes showing any emotion . With a quick shift of tiller , and at the same time jibbing the boom to which he had the stay rope fastened , Bill made the yawl recover . It seemed to the frightened judge as though his son would actually shoot the craft in under the outer end of the wharf . But by pressing the tiller hard over and at the same time dropping the small sheet of wet canvas , Bill cleared the corner of the pier by inches , and with the tiller still hard over , brought the yawl up against the waves " Willie , " the judge said huskily , " that was as pretty a piece of seamans- hip as I ever saw . That boy of mine seems to know how to do everything , when he wants to . " " 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just play in damn fine luck this time . He plenty smart though . " As they reached the pier , the judge on legs that were a little unsteady , they found Bueno Buck , now on the pier , leading the yawl toward " Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you weren't worried . We're going to drag the boat ashore and turn her over . She has a foot of water in her . I wouldn't be surprised if we broke all speed records on the way in . Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and Buck would be wetter if he had more clothes on . " With four doing the job and the waves pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon dragged out but before it was turned over Bueno Buck reached into the foot of water , tossed out a string of silvery lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he's better man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge . You look . Little one more as fifteen inches . Maybe big one four feet , huh ? " " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! " exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass and then we'll all get hold and heave . " A few moments later the yawl was upside down , exposing its shallow keel . Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort , don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he said ; " but I'd better stop thinking that now . Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . " " So there you are , my dear . " Peggy's eyes filled with tears . " It's so unfair , " she said . " That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the dockyard and now that she's ready for sea he goes sick . Just because he's an Honourable he can do what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point in sharing his discomfort with Peggy . So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German bombs during the last war . Having deposited his baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he went in search of a drink . The lower bar was empty , save for the lady known by all habitue *?2s as ' Seaweed ' , and a youngish , sharp-eyed man who was staring moodily into a gin and tonic . Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning glance at him . Evidently the other occupant of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her memory was good , so was this stranger's . " You're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a gin ? " He turned to Seaweed - " Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs , what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what . Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry bomb . Should have been a V.C. What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is obviously thirsty . " John fought back his inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he would have to leave the bar and either sit in the lounge or return to his bedroom . Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced yourself , " she said with mock severity . " It's a rule on these premises . No treating with strangers - that's right , John , isn't it ? " " My fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It's my conceited nature - I assumed that you both knew who I was . I'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was printed at the head of most naval articles in the Daily Courier . " Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr. Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . " He held out his hand and John could not do otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you , Commander , " he said . " Now what about that drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy one in return and he was lonely . " For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! - please don't address me as Commander . I'm a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You're absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on the Courier . Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ? Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth . Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double gin with relish . It was his favourite brand , he was on the verge of a new chapter in his career , and his companion's attitude was challenging . Life at home and in Bath had been a trifle too comfortable and humdrum . He'd never before met a pressman and found him curiously stimulating . " You're a bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra- ssing . You're in submarines , aren't you ? " " You know a great deal about me , " said John . " It's my business . I'll tell you more . You're going to take over command of Pericles . Am I right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird . Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , " he said . " Expense account . You're a married man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting your substance on a complete stranger . Set 'em up , darling ! " John flushed . " I'm not in need of charity . " " Come off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily Courier knows what's going on . If he doesn't mind , why should you ? " " I see . " John took the refilled glass and looked over the rim at his companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? " " You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have nothing to tell me , yet . But we'll be meeting again , no doubt , and then you will have . Regard this as a softening-up process , and have dinner with me ? On His Lordship , of course . " " On one condition , " said John . " Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly in the shiny papers ? " " You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable " Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the sort of thing . " " You'll get nothing out of me , " said John , " but you can pay for my drinks if you want to , as long as you keep off Service matters . " " Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . " Bawley was a man of his word . He kept away from Service matters , was an excellent host and a splendid raconteur . The evening passed all too quickly . As they parted in the vestibule the two men were well disposed towards each other . " Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley . " You should . Next time you're in Town give me a ring at this number and I'll take you round the pubs where most of the work is done . " He held out a card . John took it and put it in his pocket . " Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus lets me off the chain I'll take you up on that . Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring - any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? " " I don't know when that will be , " said John . " I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines , lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse . Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they charged their electric batteries . A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in through the open windows of the Captain's house . It pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of some sort . There had been many such breakfasts lately since the affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight . His normal placid and steady-going manner remained , but she could see that it no longer came naturally . It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine , though in peace time these happenings are few and far between . This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into a national disaster and then when it is all over life must continue as before . During this period the Captain must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven his surviving submarines a good deal harder than usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics suitable for such occasions . He rode down to where I was waiting . I was thinking what a skill he had for reading my mind . " This would be as good a place for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in near me . " Yes , " I said . " It'll be here to- morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss Jeannie'll be on that coach , Dan . " " Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come to her , Dan . " " She'll be all right . It's the men who'll be after that coach I'm interested in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts flying she might be in danger . " " That's so . But I reckon they'll be too busy shooting at us to bother with the coach and the folks in it . " " Maybe , " I said . " But we've got to remember that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said , giving me one of his strange looks . Then he turned the conversation . " Let's ride over and have a look at the mining camp . After all it's them we're supposed to be working for , as well as the townsfolk and the agency detective . " With something of a start I remembered the man who'd brought us into this business . " Maybe you don't know about Appleton , Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he's dead , " I said . I watched him because I was always fascinated by the way he looked when you tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes . Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted down with a shotgun outside the Palace last night . " " Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed , unreadable as a rock . " Let's get over to the mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled his horse back off the trail and up the slope leading to the ridge . I followed . From the top you could see something of the wild hill country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing . The air was fresh and clear and you could see far over west and north for many miles . The real high country of the Rockies lifted up in the distance like a pale water- colour drawing . Between us and that lay a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and malpais . " The mine-workings lie north of the town , " said Dan . " If we head west we ought to cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . " So we swung west , making slow going over rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down into draws , circling a big mesa by a four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It got hotter as the day wore on and we rested gratefully by a small creek where we watered the horses and drank enough to cure our thirst . An hour's riding brought us to a trail that we figured would lead to the miners' camp . We turned north into it and after about four miles it led into a small canyon which opened out into a wide shallow draw . Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found the miners at work . They were scattered over a fairly wide area working singly or in pairs . We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short of the diggings there was a roughly-built shack and as we got near someone inside bawled out , " If you come any closer , I'll sure blow your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we've got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you go and tell Nick Dowd we've come to talk to him about what happened last night . " " Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel peeking out through a hole in the shack never wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as though they're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where there's gold and women there's always trouble , " observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He was never long on patience . Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side of the church where there was a small open outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades and forks and tidying up implements . It might be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow . His curious headgear fell off . Strange things were going on in his bewildered brain . When a man was drowning and towards his last gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole life came up before him in some cinematic kind of sequence . Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to . Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi- canery and corruption , the growth of the dea- dly decadence and absorption in debase- ment and Satanic debauchery . He didn't know what to make of it , but it was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had been attending some kind of fancy dress do in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad , hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in his head , so the verger described afterwards . " You're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to speak normally . " Yes . I travelled down from London as the dawn was breaking , and the thought came to me I'd like to take a look at the church . I've never been inside . Very remiss of me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger led the way in . " The stained glass windows , sir , they date back to the fourteenth century . " There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the flights back . " Gay went out to the waiting taxi , and then found that in the excitement of meeting Gavin she had left her sun- glasses on the veranda . She went quickly back to fetch them . Gavin and the girl who had got off the plane with him were talking . He was writing something in his pocket-book , with a sick feeling of despair Gay knew that of course " And then we'll go for a stroll along the beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . " He gestured towards the bay where the full moon was just rising over the rocks , then laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him again , happy beyond belief , knowing that now Gavin was in love with her and her only , yet remembering for a second the kisses she had seen him giving Elaine . All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her shoulder . " That's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she lovely , she's French , a very well known model I believe . Gay , a little puzzled , went through to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were sitting just inside having coffee . " Come and join us and bring your boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! " Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be alone . " " I've booked a table at the cafe*?2 , " Doc said , " they are packed tonight so come and join us if you can't find a table for two . " Gay thanked him and walked out on to the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin had bought a drink and taken it outside . She looked round scanning the tables , then caught her breath , a cold hand seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was seated at a small table in a shadowy corner talking animatedly to Simone . As Gay watched he offered the girl a cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping hers in an intimate way . Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half decided to go back and join Lilyan and Doc , while she wanted to do no more than run upstairs to her room , knowing that Gavin although he had told her that he loved her , was already flirting with a girl that he had only met a few minutes before . Larry's advice flashed through her mind , but she turned away , giving a little gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her The others were all dancing and as Gay drew out a chair and sat down Gavin , without a word , swept Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean anything , " Gay told herself desperately , trying to understand Gavin's point of view and remembering the advice that Larry had given her , while she felt wretched beyond words . His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled with the cigarette packet which lay on the table not wanting to smoke but needing some action to help her control her feelings . " Come and dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana- ging a smile . As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin and Simone go through the doorway that led down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin would make love to the French girl on the sands , and no doubt he would come back soon and after Simone had left expect her to accept his kisses on the way back to the hotel . Sentence Database P02-109 ----------------------------------------------------- " And that's the man whom you have been eating your heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You may consider him a man , I would say he was a mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I've only met him today but I think I can safely say that I know him a great deal better than you do . " Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing yourself away on a chap like that . You're a fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had thought you were sensible too . Don't make a fool of yourself over someone who doesn't care two jots for your feelings . If he behaves like this now what is your married life going to be like ? Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once again Gay found herself alone at the table feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that people were talking about the way Gavin was behaving since they had seen them dining together . She opened her bag to get out her compact and saw Grace's letter . She drew it out and opened it , glad to be able to occupy herself . " So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , " it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland and have been over to sit with her father and do what I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping . He's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his broken arm . No other news except that Elaine is engaged and going to marry a foreigner ... " Gay read the rest of the letter then put it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged , to the man she had spent so much time with at her party . That was why Gavin had come back to her . Everything was quite clear now , and to her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak , rather a sense of relief now that she knew why Gavin had come to see her . Because she was second best . The others came back to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy , knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones . " That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she was hurt for herself . " There are all sorts of wonder- ful jobs in London and I could take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth one has to know something about fishing and in Liverpool they'd want sea-farers . I don't think I'd go to Edinburgh un- less I was a Scot and wanting to get home , or perhaps a student studying to be a doctor , and I already know all about that . " She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years . Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " , and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last evening , " If we get married , old girl , you'll have to stop that lark , I can tell you ! " She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information , which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in Little Phelpham . Now Nigel had every right to go where he liked during his off-duty periods when she was not free ; this much they had conceded one to the other . They rarely found they were off duty together , and the situation would have been intolerable had there not been some give and take about their relationship . So when Nigel had told her about taking Luke's evening surgery she had said , " Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , " he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty of variety and it's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had asked hopefully . " Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even though they're standing on one another's toes , I've got to see 'em . If I am free , though , I'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had replied readily . So how could Nigel have been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse , dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that very evening ? " No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw , my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway . NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car to somebody , Phil . He's always doing that . " Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his face , Di , but it certainly looked like Nigel from the back . D.j. and all . Of course such as I couldn't afford to go into the Load of Trouble . " " 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge . " What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble . With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly handsome at other times . " Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who's he ? " Though Diana knew the name of every member of the staff , distinguished or not , Nigel often had to think hard to sort them out . " He's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? " he now demanded . " What was he doing at the Load of Trouble ? " " But I want it ! " she protested . " It's my ring . " " You just gave it back to me . " " I didn't ! I was joking . You know I was joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke about serious things like engagements . " " Don't be such a baby ! " They were going to have an open quarrel any minute , and she knew it . Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I'll see , " he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace which really hurt . " Without your ring it's just like kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly , and kissed her again , somewhat startled to receive a sharp slap for his pains . " If I were somebody else's girl that's what you'd get , " she flashed at him , and so had left him , on her dignity and not seeing the look of admiration and revelation which had followed her slim young figure out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and then regarded the ring which he retrieved from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded , with some bitterness . Sentence Database P03-189 They often had such a rendezvous , for there was just time to smoke a cigarette , if one walked slowly , between road and hospital . His mouth hardened , his eyes became steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his words . ' I wonder you dared trust him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - ' ' Well ! At least I know the truth . Truth ! ' His gaze held hers masterfully . ' You wanted it so badly - at any price . I hope you are satisfied . ' And as he spoke , the thought of Philip lying in the other room filled him with a re- vulsion that was homicidal . Even in that , his hands were tied . He dare not precipitate what might well be another coronary . And in that second he put back his professional mantle , and said with such icy politeness , such withdrawn ' I will leave you the necessary pre- scription for the sedatives . You will contact your new doctor when you reach your parents' house . ' She watched him flick his fountain-pen from his waistcoat pocket , take out his # prescription pad , and # scribble on it . Then , with a gesture she knew so well , he tore off the leaflet and ' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said with a deadly finality . Watching him go , unable to speak , she felt that part of her was leaving him . She couldn't hate him ... If only he would have con- fided in her , given some expla- nation . Now there was no- thing - not even friendship . She went back to Philip . But all she could hear were Nicholas's words : ' I love you - oh , you know that well enough . ' Love . She revolted against the word . Nicholas , Philip ... where was happiness , or peace of mind ? Philip put out a hand and grasped hers . He needed her . She would find solace in that fact at least . She had her truth . How much had built up from that first ideal , and how little joy , or satisfaction , it had given her . ' I'm sorry , darling . ' He looked nervous . It had been hell lying there , knowing she was talking to Nicholas and wondering what they were saying . Sandra said instinctively : ' I told him I knew he was responsible for Beryl's death . ' Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are you sure that she was telling the truth ? ' ' Good heavens , darling , why on earth should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just her word . There was enough evidence , no matter how one might want to disbelieve the facts . ' Elation touched him after the cold wind of suspense . ' It will be interesting to see what comes out at the inquest . What his story will be . I reckon he'll confine himself to the nervous origin of her recent illness . His notes will be truthful , but what he leaves out will matter most . ' Strange how just then Philip was so certain that Nicholas would never betray him . He loved Sandra too deeply to ruin her future happiness . Had ever circum- stances conspired so cunningly ? Philip's spirits soared . He was better ; he had made a miraculous recovery and Sandra would soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought , certainly looked after his own . Something in Sandra's attitude struck him suddenly , making him say : ' You can't forgive him for this - can you ? ' ' Forgive is an unctuous , patronizing word , ' she replied . ' I despise the deceit . The lies . ' His voice was like his black and pin-stripe , a grey superimposition of respectability over the original colour of his own natural vowels , the result being somehow as ineffective , not just dusty-grey but muddy , slimy even . His digressions too , seemed to have no other purpose than the throwing of dust in his client's eyes , the dust of fake security , of the fake friend of the family , like the